Published for the first time! Recording of the negotiations of the fire brigade on the night of the elimination of the fire at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant on April 26, 1986. Recording starts at 01:24 and ends at 04:49. The voices on the recording are:

Valentina Andreevna Karpenko - Dispatcher of the Central Fire Control Service of the Fire Department of the Kyiv Region;
Vitaliy Galuza - HPV-2 dispatcher for the protection of the Chernobyl nuclear power plant;
Leonid Alekseevich Osetsky - senior assistant to the head of the fire fighting headquarters of the Fire Protection Department of the Kyiv region;
Vasily Vasilyevich Denisenko - Head of the Department of Regulatory and Technical Work of the Fire Protection Department of the Kyiv Region;
Vasily Petrovich Melnik - head of the service, preparation and fire fighting department of the Fire Protection Department of the Kyiv region;
Ivan Zakharovich Kotsyura - Deputy Head of the Fire Department of the Kyiv Region;
Nikolai Fedorovich Kuppa - head of the state fire supervision department of the Fire Protection Department of the Kyiv region;
Tikhon Ivanovich Karpuk - Head of the Department of Fire Equipment and Communications of the Fire Protection Department of the Kyiv Region.

All participants are listed in the chronology of the recording (from the beginning of the recording to the end)

The records were digitized and restored thanks to the Council of Veterans and the Main Directorate of the State Emergency Service of Ukraine in the Kyiv region on the 35th anniversary of the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant.


Translation of The Recorded Phone Call between Fire Dispatch:

START OF TRANSMISSION

*BEEEEEEEEP*

Hello, is that VPCh-2 (Military-Fire Station)?
Yes!
What is on fire over there?
Explosion… in the main building, between blocks 3 and 4.
Are there any people?
Yes!
Call commanders!
I am, I called the commander!
But all, all of them, all officers, all the officer corps!

*BEEP*

Leonid Alekseevich?
Yes.
Hello, Prypyat’, the roof of the 3rd and the 4th blocks is on fire because of an incident, an explosion.
…oh!… Did they confirm that?
No, dispatcher of Prypyat’ told there was an incident.

*BEEP*

Fire Department
Hello Ivanko?
Yes.
So, you move out to Prypyat’ … Hello!
Yes, I hear you!
Move out to the nuclear station, roof of the 3rd and the 4th block is on fire!

*BEEP*

Fire Department
Hello, Polesskoye?
Yes.
So, you move out to Prypyat’ to the nuclear station, roof of the 3rd and the 4th block is on fire!

*BEEP *BEEP *BEEP *BEEP*

END OF TRANSMISSION